# python-api-challenge
The purpose of this mini project was to utilize various python libraries to analyze weather across the world in various cities and then using this weather data to look at hotels across the world. pandas, matplotlib, hvplot, citipy and scipy were a handful of the python libraries that were utilized in this project. To obtain the list of cities for looking at the weather random coordinates were obtained using a loop and then cities close to these coordinates were obtained using the citipy library. To access the weather of these random cities the open weather api as accessed. Using this api I was able to obtain various weather stats such as average ax temp and humidity to name a couple. Once all the weather stats were obtained for all the cities, they were put into a dataframe. This dataframe was then turned into a csv file for use in the 2nd part of the project. Various plots were created comparing latitude to various weather stats for all the cities in the dataframe. Then I compared the cities in northern to the cities in the southern hemisphere again using latitude and the various weather stats that were obtained from the open weather api. The plots comparing the cities in northern hemisphere to the southern hemisphere cities also had various statistical stats done on them such as obtaining the correlation value and a linear regression line. Using these statistical test various observations were had on the different weather stats in the two hemispheres. When comparing max temp one relationship was that max temp will most likely be colder if you are closer to either the South or North Pole. There was very little correlation when comparing the humidity of the northern and southern hemisphere. Just like humidity, cloudiness and windspeed had very weak correlation because they had such low r-values. 

